UNIVERSITY  of NEBRASKA –LINCOLN  
U N I V E R S I T Y  F L E E T  M A N A G E M E N T   
 
By removing keys for a University vehicle from University Fleet Managements self -serve 
KEYOSK dispatch system, the leasing department agrees  to the following.  
 
Vehicle Lease Agreement  
 
Leasing Department:           
Vehicle Unit Number:           
Reservation Number:           
Lease Period:            
Monthly Depreciation Charge:          
Mileage Rate (Fee):            
 
Agreement between the above referenced department (Lessee) and University Fleet 
Management (Lessor) to lease the above -identified vehicle. The monthly charge covers 
vehicle depreciation , insurance, maintenance  and repair . The mileage charge covers 
accelerated  vehicle depreciation  due to exceeding the planned life of the vehicle .  
 
Lessee agrees to utilize the online vehicle e -Log ( https://scsapps.unl.edu/MileageLog/ ) or 
maintain a paper mileage log and submit end -of-month odometer and days use reading s on 
or befo re the 7th of the following month.  
 
All maintenance is to be performed at the lessor’s facility or a pre -determined location, 
except in the case of emergencies. In the case of an emergency or out -of-area  breakdown, 
the lessor will provide assistance to enable the vehicle to be repaire d. In the event of an out -
of-area  breakdown, the lessee must have prior approval from lessor for repairs exceeding 
$100.00. The lessor will not be responsible for a replacement vehicle or for loss of time due 
to out -of-town breakdowns.  
 
Lessee will pay a n insurance  deductible in case of an accident where lessee is at fault. All 
accident damage will be repaired during or at the end of the lease period. Lessee will be 
responsible for any vehicle damage associated with driver abuse or negligence during the 
rental period . There will be no extra charges at time of vehicle turn -in except in the case of 
excessive wear and tear. Charges associated with driver abuse, negligence, excessive wear 
and tear will not be charged without prior notification to the lessee by the lessor.   
 
Drivers are responsible for inspecting the vehicle for body damage prior to operation and 
reporting any damage  using the appropriate form  to avoid being held responsible.   
 
Each vehicle is assigned a specific Voyager credit card , which  is nationally accepted, 
provides fuel discounts, and federal tax exemption for the University. The assigned 
Voyager credit card is not to be used for other vehicles. The drivers Voyager PIN  is 
required to authorize the transaction and the odometer must be entered to complete the 
UNIVERSITY  of NEBRASKA –LINCOLN  
U N I V E R S I T Y  F L E E T  M A N A G E M E N T   
 
authorization process. Personal items (food, etc.) are never to be charged to the Voyager 
credit card.  
 
University vehicles are “moving billboards” and drivers are required to operate vehicles in 
a courteous manner, being mindful of the public perception of University  is often 
influenced by how the University vehicle is driven, or where the vehicle is operated or 
parked. Vehi cle operators are required to exercise reasonable judgment while driving or 
when parking by establishments other than University owned facilities.  
 
University vehicles can only be used for official University business. At no time is personal 
use of a Unive rsity vehicle allowed. Personal use examples: Weekend Driving unrelated to 
business; Vacation driving; Commute mileage; Midday drive away from regular workplace 
solely or primarily for personal reasons; Loan of car to authorized driver(s) for use 
unrelated  University business.  
 
Only University employees, students, or approved guest on official University business can 
ride in a University vehicle. All occupants must wear seat belts at all times.  
 
University vehicles are subject to the same parking rules and re gulations as personal 
vehicles such as "No Parking" zones, restricted curb zones marked in red -yellow -blue, 
sidewalks, pedestrian crosswalks, barricaded or closed lots, or handicap parking.  
 
Vehicle drivers should understand tickets issued while assigned a University vehicle are the 
driver’s personal responsibility.  
 
Only drivers who have been pre -approved by University Fleet Management may operate 
the vehicle.  
 
Vehicle modifications, r oof rack s or trailer hitches are not permitted, unless prior written 
authorization from " University Fleet Management " is obtained.  
 
Smoking or a lcoholic beverage s are not allowed in University vehicles.  
 
Drivers are to avoid the use of cell phone, smart phone, blackberry, or other electronic 
device while operating a vehicle . 
 
The security of University vehicles and their contents is the driver’s  responsibility. When 
vehicles are left unattended for any reason, the keys must be removed, the windows closed 
and the doors locked to prevent unauthorized use or theft of vehicle contents.