A67_ 0523  Page 1 of 7  
 
  
LESSOR  
(“us”, “we”, “our”)  Legal Name:  
 Trading Name:  
 Address:  
 
  
    
LESSEE  
(“you”)  Name   TAX INVOICE   
Address   GST NO. 49 -809-999  
 Email Address   LEASE NO.    
   
 
SPECIFIC INFORMATION  
Motor Vehicle  MAKE  
 MODEL  
 VIN NO.  
 REG. NO.  
 YEAR  
 ODOMETER  
      (kms/hrs) 
ACCESSORIES  
 
Insurance Details  INSURER  
 POLICY NO.  
 
 
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT for your consumer credit contract  
IMPORTANT  – We are required to provide you with this Disclosure Statement under section 17 of the Credit Contracts and Consumer Finance Act 
2003. This Disclosure Statement sets out the key information about this contract. You should read it thoroughly. If you do no t understand anything 
in this document, you should seek independent advice. You should keep this contract in a safe place.  
This Disclosure Statement must be provided to you before  this contract is entered into by you.  The law gives you a limited right to c ancel this contract. 
See the statement of right to cancel on page  2 for full details of your right to cancel. Note that strict time limits apply.  
 
Full Name & Address of Lessor – see details of the initial Lessor above . This is the person providing you the credit.  
Note: As this contract will be transferred to Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited (“TFNZ”), TFNZ will be the “Lessor” when the  transfer happens so the 
following information should be used for the purposes of communicating with TFNZ.  
You may send notices to TFNZ by:  
a) writing to TFNZ at the postal address shown opposite; or  
b) sending TFNZ an email to the address shown opposite; or  
c) sending TFNZ a fax to the number shown opposite.  Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited (trading as Toyota Financial Services)  
Physical address  Toyota Building, The Millennium Centre  
 602 Great South Road, Greenlane, Auckland 1051  
Postal address  PO Box 17065, Greenlane, Auckland 1546  
Facsimile  09 571 4284  
Email address  info@tfs.co.nz  
 
Financial Details (GST Inclusive)  Term & Payments Details  
Initial unpaid balance  $ 
which is the total amount  you owe us as at the Start Date and 
is made up as follows:  
$  Price of Motor Vehicle  
$  Accessories  
$  On Road Costs  
$  Insurance – Vehicle  
$  Insurance – Payment Protection Plan  
$  Insurance – Extended Warranty  
$  PPSR Processing Fee  
$  Maintenance Costs (eg. Service Plan)  
$  Establishment Fee  
Less   
$  Advance Payment  * 
  
 
* Breakdown of Advance Payment is:  
GST Excl.  GST GST Incl.  
$ $ $ 
 
Residual Value:  $        (plus GST)  
 
Agreed Kilometre Allowance:                  kilometres  
 Payments are to be made in accordance with the following schedule of payments:  
Start Date   
End Date   
Number  of rental payments        (incl. Advance Rental Payment (s) if applic able) 
Frequency of rental payments   
First rental payment date   
Last rental payment date   
 GST Excl.  GST GST Incl.  
        Advance rental 
payment(s)  $  $  $  
Amount of each subsequent 
rental payment  $  $  $  
Total amount of rental 
payments  $             (GST incl.)  
Interest & method of charging interest  
Interest Start Date   
Annual Interest Rate            % fixed for the whole term of this contract  
Total Interest Charges  $ 
Interest charges are calculated daily by multiplying the unpaid balance at the end 
of the day by a daily interest rate. The daily interest rate is calculated by dividing 
the annual interest rate by 365. Interest is charged to your account monthly.  
** You do not have the option to purchase the motor vehicle under this agreement  ** 
 
Crediting of Payments  
We will have the right only to credit a payment, on the dates set out and specified in this Disclosure Statement . If you make a payment before any 
date specified we will not credit you with that payment against the amount you owe us until the date the payment is actually due. This means you still 
pay interest on the amount you owe us until we credit the payment on the date it was due to be paid. If we do not accept the payment we will refund it 
to you as soon as practicable.  CONSUMER FINANCE LEASE  AGREEMENT  
 
A67_ 0523  Page 2 of 7   
Credit Fees and Charges  
The following credit fees and charges (which are not included in the financial details above ) are, or may become, payable under, or in connection 
with, th is contract. The General Terms of this contract allow us to vary these fee s and charge s. 
Assignment  Payable when we  consent to an assignment of this  contract by you to another person  $ 200.00  
Variation  Payable when we agree to change the structure of your loan  $ 200.00  
Refund  Payable for processing a refund to you of an overpayment or balance  $ 12.00 
Small Balance  Payable for processing an end of loan credit balance that is less than the refund fee  $ 15.00  Max. fee  
Substitution of Goods  Payable when the property which we have a security interest in is changed  $ 100.00  
Lessee  Service Investigation  Charged for time taken to supply you with information you request (Min. fee of $10.00)  $ 85.00 Per hour  
 
Continuing Disclosure  
We may be required to provide you with regular statements. The statements will give you information about your account.  Statements will be 
provided  6 monthly . 
 
What Could Happen if You Fail to Meet Your Commitments  
Security interest  
We have a security interest in the Motor Vehicle described on the front page. If you fail to meet your commitments under th is contract, we may be 
entitled to repossess and sell the Motor Vehicle.  If we sell the  Motor Vehicle and there is not enough money after the sale to cover what you owe us, 
you will, or may, remain indebted to us for the amount you woul d still owe.  
If you give someone else a security interest over the Motor Vehicle you will be in breach under th is contract and we may repossess and sell the 
Motor Vehicle and/or we may do anything else as set out in claus e 18 of the General Terms of this  contract.  
Default interest charges and default fees  
In the event of a default in payment and while the default continues you must pay the default interest charges.  In the event of a breach of this  contr act or 
on the enforcement of this  contract, the default  fees specified below are payable. The General Terms of this agreement  allow  us to vary these fees and 
charges.  
Default interest  is 5.00% over the annual interest rate or 18.00% p.a. whichever is the greater, and this default interest rate is payable in the event of 
a default in payment and while the default continues.  
Default fees : 
$ 13.00 Payable if any payment is dishonoured or reversed or unpaid  
$ 17.00 Payable on issue by us of a repossession warning notice  
$ 100.00  Payable on issue by us of a repossession warrant to our repossession agent  
$ 50.00 Payable on issue by us of a post -repossession notice  
 
Early Termination  
If you end this contract before the End Date or this contract ends before the End Date because we (the Lessor) have taken enf orcement action 
against you if you are in default under this contract, you may be required to pay a fee or charge to c ompensate us for any loss resulting from the 
early termination.   
We may have suffered a loss if our current interest rate is lower than the interest rate applying to this contract. You may a lso have to pay our 
administrative cost relating to the full prep ayment. Also other amounts may be payable by you if this contract ends before the End Date – see clause 
15 of the General Terms. Our administrative cost is $ 21.00. The General Terms of this contract allow us to vary this cost.  
The amount you may have to p ay to compensate us for the loss is calculated using the formula prescribed in regulation 9 of the Credit Contracts and 
Consumer Finance Regulations 2004, but the formula for calculating the value of forgone payments in regulation 9 (2) is chang ed as follo ws: 
The value of forgone payments (VFP) is calculated by totalling the resulting PV’s of each forgone payment. Each PV is calcula ted by applying the following formula:  
 where – 
PV is the present value of the forgone payment  
p is the amount of each payment payable under the fixed rate contract  
d is the number of days between the due date of each forgone payment and the date of full prepayment  
i is the annual fixed interest rate determined in accordance with regulation 9 (4) and (5) of the Regulations  and expressed 
as a decimal fraction  
 
 
Your Right to Cancel  
You are entitled to cancel this contract by giving notice to us.  
Time limits for cancellation  
• If this contract was handed to you directly you must give notice that you intend to cancel within 5 working days after you re ceive this contract.  
• If this contract was sent to you by electronic means (for example, email) you must give notice that you inten d to cancel within 7 working days 
after the electronic communication is sent.  
• If this contract was mailed to you, you must give the notice within 9 working days after it was posted.  
• Saturdays, Sundays and national public holidays are not counted as working days.  
How to cancel  
To cancel this contract you must give us written notice that you intend to cancel this contract by – 
• giving notice to us or to any of our employees or agents; or  
• posting the notice to us or to any of our employees or agents; or  
• emailing the notice to us to our email address specified on page 1 above; or  
• sending the notice to our fax number specified on page 1 above.  
You must also – 
(a) return to us any advance and any other property received by you under this contract (but you ca nnot do this if you have taken possession of any 
goods or if you have bought any property at an auction or if the contract is for the sale of services that have been performe d); or  
(b) pay the cash price of the property and services within 15 working days of the day you give notice.  
What you may have to pay if you cancel  
If you cancel the contract we can charge you – 
• the amount of reasonable expenses we had to pay in connection with this contract and its cancellation (including legal fees a nd fees for credit 
reports, etc)  
• interest for the period from the day you received the property or services until the day you either pay the cash price for th e property or services or 
return the property to us  
• the costs of repairing any property you return if the property was damaged while it was in your possession.  
 
A67_ 0523  Page 3 of 7   
Your Right to Relief on the Grounds of Unforeseen Hardship  
If you are unable to keep up your payments because of an unexpected event that causes you hardship, for example illness,  injury, loss of 
employment or the end of a relationship, you can apply to us for a hardship variation.   
To apply for a hardship variati on you need to:  
(a) make a request to us in writing; and  
(b) explain your reason(s) for the application; and  
(c) request one of the following:  
• an extension to the term of this agreement (which will reduce the amount of each payment due under this agreement); or  
• a postponement of the dates on which payments are due under this agreement (specify the period for which you want this to apply); or  
• both of the above; and  
(d) give the application to us . 
Do this as soon as possible because, if you leave it for too long, we do not have to consider your application.  
 
Dispute Resolution and Registration on the Financial Service Provider Register  
Note: As this contract will be transferred to Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited the following relates to its registration an d disputes resolution scheme. You 
will receive additional information following assignment as may be required by law. 
Name of dispute resolution scheme: The I nsurance & Financial Services  Ombudsman Scheme  Inc. 
It is free to make a complaint to this independent dispute resolution scheme. This scheme can help you resolve any disagreeme nts you have with us.  
Contact details of dispute resolution scheme : 
Phone:  0800 888 202 or 04 499 7612  PO Box 10 -845 
Email:  info@ifso.nz  Wellington 6143  
Fax: 04 499 7614  New Zealand  
Web:  http://www.i fso.nz 
Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited is:  
• registered under the Financial Services Providers (Registration and Disputes Resolution) Act 2008 under registration number F SP27861; and  
• a member of the above disputes resolution scheme.  
NOTE: The transfer of the contract to Toyota Finance New Zealand Li mited will not affect the terms of the contract other than the terms 
relating to the identity of the Lessor.  
 
OTHER INFORMATION  
About This Agreement  
This agreement is about the finance lease, we (the Lessor) are providing to you to enable you to lease the Motor Vehicle described on page 1 from 
us. You do not have the right to buy the Motor Vehicle under this agreement. We remain the owner of the Motor Vehicle through out the term of this 
agreement and you must not claim a GST input credit for the p rice of the Motor Vehicle.  
 
How to Read This Agreement  
The agreement is th is contract between you and us (the Lessor ) set out in the Specific Information  (above) (which includes the Disclosure Statement  
(above) ), the Other Information and the General Terms. The agreement also includes any changes we agree to.  
 
Start Date  / Interest Start Date  
You acknowledge that the credit under this agreement is provided to you on the Start Date and  Interest Start Date (referred to on page 1) being the 
date:  
(a) You took possession of the Motor Vehicle; or  
(b) (Where you have not taken actual possession of the Motor Vehicle ) the Motor Vehicle was made available for you to take possess ion. 
 
Taxes and Duties  
1. If you are not a registered person at the date of this agreement but subsequently become registered for the purposes of Section 51 of the Goods 
and Services Tax Act 1985 and the Motor Vehicle is used in the furtherance of a taxable activity within the meanin g of Section 6 of that Act you 
must immediately furnish to us your Goods and Services Tax registration number.  
2. If at any time during the term of this agreement there shall be:  
 (a) any change in any applicable law, regulation or regulatory requirement r elating to depreciation deductions for tax purposes, or in the 
interpretation or application thereof; or  
 (b) any requirement by law or regulation to make any tax deduction, withholding or payment from any amount paid or payable by you  under this 
agreement ; or 
 (c) a requirement on us by law or regulation to make any payment, on account of taxation (other than taxation on our overall net income), duty, 
levy or any other matter, on or in relation to any amount received or receivable by us under this agreemen t; 
 which shall reduce the net return to us from this agreement, then we shall be entitled to increase the payments due under thi s agreement by an 
amount which will realise to us an after tax rate of return equal to the after tax rate of return which we wo uld have realised had none of the 
matters referred to in (a) to (c) inclusive above occurred. If during the currency of this agreement as a result of the occur rence of any of the 
matters referred to in (a) to (c), we shall receive an increased rate of retu rn after tax, we may, in our sole discretion, reduce the payments due 
under this agreement.  
3. Where the rate of GST on supplies made by us under this agreement changes after the date of this agreement, the amount you mu st pay us 
shall change accordingly. For example, if the change is an increase, you must pay us an additional amount so that the net amount retained by us 
after GST is accounted for equals the amount which would have been retained in the absence of the change. The additional amou nt on account  
of the GST increase shall be due at the same time as the payment to which it relates.  
4. In any case where this agreement does not specify whether an amount (“the original amount”) payable or indemnified by you is plus GST or 
inclusive of GST, you shall b e required to pay us or indemnify us against an additional amount on account of any GST payable by us with respect 
to the original amount and the additional amount.  
 
A67_ 0523  Page 4 of 7   
No Agency  
You acknowledge that the Lessor named at the top of page 1 is not an agent for Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited  unless expressly stated in this 
agreement, nor is it an agent of TFNZ for the purposes of the Financial Advisers Act 2008.  
 
Set Off 
You acknowledge that we may, at any time and without telling you first, set off agai nst any money we may owe you (e g. any credit balances in any 
account you have with us) any money you  owe us or any liability you may have to us  on any of your accounts with us.  
 
Power of Attorney  
You irrevocably appoint TFNZ and each of its directors and managers for the time being, severally to be your attorney to do all such things as we 
may consider necessary or desirable in order to protect fully our interests under this agreement including anything necessary  to protect, secure or 
enforce any security granted to us.  
 
Verification Statement  Waiver  
You waive your right to receive a copy of the verification statement confirming registration by us of a financing statement o r a financing change 
statement in relation to any security granted to us.  
 
Electronic Disclosures and Other Communications  
You consent to us making disclosures to you, sending notices, certificates, letters and statements and other communications t o you electronically to 
your email address above or any other email address you give us in writing. However this only applies where  we are allowed to do so at law.  
 
Change of Name and Address  
You will let us know  in writing (at least 14 days before the change takes effect) if you intend to change your name or address.  
 
Consent to Obtaining and Disclosure of Information  
For the purposes of this Consent, “Organisation” means any bank, financial institution, credit reporter, government department or gov ernment 
agency, insurance company, employer, or any other person or entity.  
Each Lessee  named above  (“I”) authorise s You ( Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited  and any assignee) from time to time to make enquiries, 
receive, collect, and use any information (“Personal Information”) relating to me (including about any amounts l may be requi red to pay by any 
financial arrangements l may have now or in future)  to enable You to:  
• obtain credit reports on me , bank statements (only if separately authorised by me ) and fine status responses about me;  
• verify my identity as required by the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering Financing of Terrorism Act 2009 and regulations  (“AML laws”);  
• assess any application to You for credit;  
• market to me related services and products;  
• maintain a record of all credit arrangements I may have with You from time to time;  
• report any credit defaults by me and/or report my repayment history information;  
• check my name and address registered in respect of any motor vehicle and information on those vehicles;  
• protect or enforce any security interest I may have given  to You; and/or  
• obtain information regarding my insurance policy records in relation to any motor vehicle you have a security interest in.  
l understand and agree that all telephone conversations or other electronic communications between You and me may be recorded by You for the 
above purposes, for training purposes, and for all purposes connected to any services you may provide or consider providing t o me, even if I am not 
aware of that at the time of recording.  
I authorise You to disclose my Personal Information to Toyota New Zealand Limited and any Motor Vehicle Trader and I also authorise  Toyota New 
Zealand Limited and any such Motor Vehicle Trader to use my Personal Information to market its services and products to me.  
I authorise You to disclose to and obtain from any Organisation (and I also authorise any Organisation to provide to You) any Personal In formation:  
• for any of the purposes set out above;  
• to assist any other Organisation to verify my identity as required by the AML laws, and any Organisation to whom you disclose my Personal 
Information that is a credit reporter may also disclose that Personal Information to its clients, including to assist them to  thus verify my identity;  
• if l have authorised an Organisation to seek it from You.  
l understand and agree  that my Personal Information may also:  
• be disclosed to and obtained by You and/or an Organisation for the purposes of you or them complying with or enforcing any la ws;  
• be disclosed to an Organisation advising fr om time to time details of any credit defaults and/or repayment history information under any credit 
arrangements I may have with You and that You and/or an Organisation may give Personal Information (including my credit defau lts and/or 
repayment history i nformation) to Your and/or their respective customers, to the extent that you or they are permitted by law to do so;  
• when so used or disclosed include in particular Personal Information about me that is credit account information, including matters such as  the 
type of account(s) I have or have had with you and any reference account numbers you have used for them, the amounts of credi t provided to 
me by them, whether I was a sole or joint borrower  or a guarantor , whether those accounts are open or closed and  in either case as from what 
dates, and our repayment history in respect of such accounts, including details of payments made or not made;  
• be disclosed by You to any person to whom either you or I may assign our rights under any financial transactions I ma y have with You now or in 
future;  
• be used by You and/or an Organisation for monitoring services, to receive ongoing credit reports and updates if any of the Pe rsonal Information 
held about me ch anges;  
• be recorded and listed by an Organisation on their syst ems and used by that Organisation for credit reporting services and supplied to customers 
of that Organisation  to the extent permitted by law from time to time when those customers use th eir services; and/or  
• be disclosed  to law enforcement agencies, to our agents, and to other credit providers or credit reporting agencies if in our opinion info rmation 
held by us about you suggests possible fraudulent or dishonest behaviour.  
I authorise  my insurance company to note the int erest of “Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited” as an interested party on their policy records in 
relation to any motor vehicle Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited has a security interest in.  
I have been advised  by You that the provision of my driver's licenc e number for the purposes of You submitting a Ministry of Justice fine status 
query is voluntary, and I consent to you using it for that purpose or to make inquiries of the register of drivers licences t o verify information about my 
driver’s licence, or fo r any other purpose referred to above.  
I understand  that l have a right of access to, and correction of, Personal Information held by You and that by notice to You I can be remo ved from 
any mailing or contact list used to provide ongoing marketing of produ cts and services by You.  
 
 
A67_ 0523  Page 5 of 7  GENERAL TERMS  
 
What Is Your Agreement With Us?  
The agreement  is this contract between you and us and is set out in the 
Specific Information, the Other Information and the General Terms set 
out here. It also includes any changes we might agree to. You agree to 
the matters set out in these General Terms.  
The meanings  of some words and phrases  are located under the 
heading “What Do Some Wo rds & Phrases Mean? ” in clause 3 1. 
Lease  
1. We agree to lease the Vehicle to you at the rental and on the terms 
set out in this agreement and you agree to lease the Vehicle from us 
on those terms.  
Our Security Interest In The Vehicle  
2. You give us and we take a security interest (to secure the payment of 
all money  you owe us and the performance of your obligations under 
this agreement and any other agreement you may have with us), 
which we will register under the PPSA, in:  
• The Vehicle;  
• Any proceeds of the Vehicle. “Proceeds” is defined in the PPSA. 
For example proceeds will include any insurance money you 
may get or be entitled to in relation to the Vehicle.  
Other Things You Should Know About Your Payments  
3. You must make the payments to us in the amounts and at the times 
as set out in the Disclosure Statement. You must not make a 
deduction from any payment for any reason.  
4. If a payment falls on a day which is not a Business Day you must 
make the payment on the next such Business Day.  
You Might Have To Pay Fees & Charges  
5. You will pay the credit fees and charges and default interest charges 
and default fees set out in the Disclosure Statement, if any of them 
apply t o you. These will be debited to your account and you must pay 
these to us on demand. We can also vary these fees and charges if 
we consider that to be necessary. This means we can change the 
amount of the fee or charge or add a new fee or charge. We will t ell 
you of any change or addition.  
Things You Need To Do Relating To The Vehicle  
6. As we have a security interest in the Vehicle there are various things 
you agree to. These are:  
 a. Maintain the Vehicle:  You must keep the Vehicle in good 
condition and w orking order (fair wear and tear excepted),  carry 
out all maintenance and servicing in accordance with the Vehicle 
manufacturer’s specifications and otherwise not do anything that 
could cause the value of the Vehicle to deteriorate.  
 b. Comply with laws:  You must comply  with all laws and 
regulations affecting your possession and use of the Vehicle. 
This includes, making sure the Vehicle has a warrant of fitness or 
certificate of fitness, is registered and that you pay all fines and 
any charges in relation t o the Vehicle (eg. road user charges). 
You must only use the Vehicle for the purpose it is designed for.  
 c. Not modify:  You must not modify the Vehicle, remove any 
accessories or change its registration plates without our prior 
written consent, which we a re not obliged to give.  
 d. Allow inspection:  You will let us inspect and test the Vehicle at 
a reasonable time and at a location specified by us when we ask. 
We will give you reasonable notice.  
 e. Do not affect our Security Interest:  You must not do or a llow 
anything that might affect our security interest in the Vehicle. For 
example, you must not part with possession, conceal, 
disassemble or take the Vehicle outside New Zealand, sell, lease 
or dispose of the Vehicle, do or not do anything that would caus e 
or otherwise create, allow to be created or permit a security 
interest in the Vehicle other than ours.  
What You Need To Know About Vehicle Insurance  
7. Keep Vehicle Insured: You must insure and keep the Vehicle 
insured for its full replacement value wit h a reputable insurance 
company against all loss, damage and other usual vehicle risks. You 
must make sure the insurance policy notes our interest in the Vehicle 
and names us as loss payee. You will supply us with full details of 
the insurance when asked t o. You must make sure the insurance is 
not affected in any way, for example you must not let a person who 
does not hold a full license drive the Vehicle otherwise than in 
accordance with the law.  
8. Keep us informed: You must tell us straight away if the V ehicle is 
stolen or damaged.  
9. What happens if there is loss or damage: If the insurer does not 
remedy any loss or damage to the Vehicle or it is stolen, we are 
entitled to receive any money payable under the insurance policy or 
from any other person resp onsible for the loss or damage. We may 
at our discretion:   
 
 a. use that money towards meeting the costs of the damage and if 
the proceeds are not enough to repair the damage, you will pay 
us on demand, the additional amount required to repair the 
damage; or  
 b. elect to end this agreement in whic h case if the proceeds are not 
enough to repay the unpaid balance and the amounts specified 
in the Term & Payments Details in the Disclosure Statement to 
the End Date (including any amounts payable under cl ause 15 
below), you will pay us the difference on demand. If there are no 
proceeds, (for example because you did not insure the Vehicle in 
breach of clause 7), then you will pay us the unpaid balance and 
the amounts specified in the Term & Payments Details  in the 
Disclosure Statement to the End Date (again including any 
amounts payable under clause 15 below);  
Things We Might Do To Protect Our Interests  
10. If you don’t do things you agreed to under this agreement or we need 
to do things to protect our inter est in the Vehicle, we may do these 
things on your behalf and  at your expense. Any moneys we have 
paid will be debited to your account and you will pay these to us on 
demand. For example, if you do not insure the Vehicle we may 
arrange the insurance and de bit the premium to your account.  
You Can End Your Lease Early  
11. You can end your lease before the End Date but you must give us 10 
Business Days written notice that you wish to do so and clauses 12, 
13 and 15 below apply. You must return the Vehicle to u s at the time 
and place we tell you within 5 Business Days of the date we specify.  
What Happens When The Lease Ends?  
12. Vehicle inspection : At the end of this lease (whether at the End 
Date or where you wish to end your lease early) we will arrange for a 
vehicle inspection report to be done (at your cost) so that we can see 
if the Vehicle:  
 a. is in good condition and working order as it was at the Start Date 
(fair wear and tear excepted); and  
 b. has 5 sound tyres (not re -treads) of Warrant of Fitness sta ndard.  
 If any amounts need to be paid by us in order to place the vehicle in 
that condition and order or for such tyres, you must pay those 
amounts to us on demand.  
13. Sale of Vehicle : We will attempt to sell the Motor Vehicle promptly at 
the “Sale Price ”. However if we are unable to sell the Vehicle within 
30 days from the date the Vehicle is ready for sale then we may keep 
the Vehicle and get from a motor vehicle valuer a market valuation of 
the best wholesale price of the Vehicle. The market valuation will 
then be the Sale Price.  
14. Lease ends at End Date : If your lease ends at the End Date:  
 a. You must return the Vehicle to us at  the time and place we tell 
you. If you do not return the Vehicle to us at the time and place 
we tell you, you must pay us the Residual Value and the unpaid 
balance on demand. This does not mean that any of our other 
rights we have under this agreement are  affected;  
 b. If the Sale Price of the Vehicle (after we deduct any moneys we 
may have had to pay to restore and repair the Vehicle (as above) 
for sale, is:  
  i. less than the Residual Value, then you will pay the difference 
to us; or  
  ii. more than the Residual Value, then we will pay the 
difference to you . 
 c. If you do not deliver  the Vehicle to us when the lease comes to 
an end, then you will if we ask pay us 1/30th of the GST -exclusive 
monthly rental payment plus GST per day from the date the 
lease ended until you do deliver it to us. This clause does not 
extend the term of this lease and your payment to us is a 
payment made under a separate agreement from the lease  
payments referred to elsewhere in this agreement.  
15. Lease ends before End Date : If your lease ends before the End 
Date you are obliged to pay us:  
 a. The sum of the remaining payments as  specified in the “Term & 
Payments Details ” (as at the date your le ase ends) excluding any 
interest not yet due on the remaining payments ; 
 b. Plus any fees and/or charges referred to in 1 & 2 in the 
Disclosure Statement under the heading “Early Termination” ; 
 c. Plus or Minus any difference between the Sale Price of the 
Vehicle and the Residual Value. This will be a “Plus” if the Sale 
Price is less than the Residual Value or a “Minus” if the Sale 
Price is more than the Residual Value;  
 d. Plus all other amounts you might owe us under this agreement 
including any restorati on charges under clause 12.  
 If the sum of a – d above is a positive amount you must pay that 
amount to us. However if it is a negative amount, we will pay the 
negative amount to you.  
 
A67_ 0523  Page 6 of 7   
16. How Residual Value is worked out : The Residual Value has been 
work ed out on the basis that the Vehicle will travel no more than the 
Agreed Kilometre Allowance during the term of the lease. We may 
however negotiate and agree with you at any time, a variation to this 
agreement to take account of a change of the Agreed Kilo metre 
Allowance and if this happens the Residual Value may change 
accordingly.  
When Would You Be In Default?  
17. You would be in default if:  
 a. You do not make a payment under this agreement on time; or  
 b. You have not done anything else you agreed to, or have done or 
allowed something you should not have, under this agreement or 
any other agreement you may have with us; or  
 c. We have reasonable grounds to believe that the Vehicle has 
been  or will be destroyed,  damaged, endangered, disassembled, 
removed, concealed, sold, or otherwise disposed of contrary to 
the provisions of th is agreement; or  
 d. What you have told us or given us is untrue or misleading; or  
 e. We have reasonable grounds to believe we were induced to 
enter into this agreement by fra ud by you or someone else; or  
 f. Anyone else has, or claims, a security interest or lien in the 
Vehicle; or  
 g. You become insolvent, or steps to make you become insolvent 
are taken by you, or any other person; or  
 h. Any judgment of any Court or Tribunal  remains unsatisfied for 
more than 14 days.  
What Then Happens When You Are In Default?  
18. If you are in default, then subject to any relevant law:  
 a. The unpaid balance and all other amounts you owe us under this 
agreement may become immediately due for  payment on 
demand by us; and/or  
 b. We may take possession of the Vehicle and enter on to your 
property or any other property (as your agent) where the Vehicle 
might be to take possession of it; whether or not you or any other 
person is present at the tim e; and/or  
 c. We may sell the Vehicle ; and/or  
 d. We may charge you the default interest charges and/or the 
default fees in accordance with, and as set out in, the Disclosure 
Statement; and/or  
 e. We may charge you fee s and charges referred to in 1) and 2)  in 
the Disclosure Statement under the heading “Early Termination” ; 
and/or  
 f. We may exercise any other rights we may have at law and under 
this agreement, including the right to sue you for moneys owing 
and enforce any other security we may have.  
Other T hings You Should Know  
19. How we can exercise our rights and powers:  We can exercise all 
our rights, powers and remedies under this agreement or at law in 
any way we think appropriate. For example, we can do anything 
under this agreement at once or after a  time, or more than once. If 
we do not do something when we are able to, that does not mean we 
are giving up that right, power or remedy and we can still exercise it 
later.  
20. Recording conversations:  We can record all telephone 
conversations and other e lectronic correspondence we have with 
you, and may use such recordings for the purposes of this 
agreement and otherwise as agreed by you in the Other Information.  
21. Our statements as evidence of amounts you owe:  If we send you 
a statement or certificate about any amount you owe us in 
connection with this agreement, that statement or certificate is 
sufficient evidence of the amount, unless you prove the amount to be 
incorrect.  
22. More than one of you?  If more than one of you is named as the 
Lessee on page 1, each of you is independently liable to us in 
connection with this agreement. This means, for example, we could 
require one of you to pay on demand without asking the other 
Lessee.  
23. We can assign : We can assign our rights under this agreement to 
any person or entity and if we do you agree that we may disclose any 
information we have about you to that person or entity.  
24. No assignment by you:  You may not assign your rights under this 
agreement wi thout getting our consent first which we might not give.  
25. Notices:  Notices, certificates, approvals and other communications 
must be in writing. These may be given by us to you in any way that 
is permitted by law.  
26. Conflict:  If there is any inconsist ency between something we say in 
these General Terms, the Specific Information and Other 
Information, what we say in the Specific Information and Other 
Information will apply instead.   
27. Indemnify us:  You will indemnify us , to the maximum extent 
permitt ed by law,  for any costs, losses or expenses we incur 
(including those of any third party we might need to pay like costs on 
a solicitor/client basis and court or tribunal charges including time 
and other cost spent by us in relation to hearing attendances ) if we 
have to enforce our rights or protect our security interest under this 
agreement; or if you fail to do anything you should have done or you 
do something you should not have done under this agreement. You 
will pay us any such amounts on demand.  
28. Do anything we ask you to do:  You will do all reasonable things we 
ask you to do to protect our interest under this agreement and the 
Vehicle.  
29. Law:  New Zealand law and jurisdiction applies to this agreement.  
30. Warranty regarding information:  In signi ng this agreement, you 
are warranting that you have provided us with all information relevant 
to the Vehicle’s intended use and purpose, and that any information 
you have provided as to the Vehicle’s intended use and purpose is 
correct to the best of your knowledge.  
What Do Some Words & Phrases Mean?  
31. In this agreement:  
 account  means the loan account we have created in your name in 
connection with this agreement.  
 Agreed Kilometre Allowance  is the agreed kilometre allowance 
referred to in the Disclosure Statement or such other value as agreed 
under clause 16.  
 Business Day  means a day on which our bank is open for normal 
banking business.  
 Disclosure Statement  means the disclosure statement set out in the 
Specific Information.  
 End Date  means the End Date referred to in the Disclosure 
Statement set out in the Specific Information.  
 fair, wear and tear  means deterioration in the working order, repair, 
condition and appearance of the Vehicle as  is reasonably consistent 
with careful maintenance and use. For example, the following are 
not considered fair wear and tear:  
• Body work damage – scrapes and scratches where the paint 
surface is broken and repainting is necessary or paint 
discolouration on the exterior of the Vehicle; rust; dents or other 
impact damage; broken or cracked glass.  
• Interior and boot, carpet and trim – tears, rips and cuts to seats, 
interior trim, carpets and head lining, oil, glue, chemicals and 
other substance s which cannot be removed using upholstery 
cleaners; or cigarette burns.  
• Missing engine components and/or accessories.  
 insolvent  means that you become insolvent. For example, being 
bankrupt, in receivership, or you apply for entry to the no asset 
procedu re or are otherwise unable to pay debts as they fall due.  
 Lessor  includes Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited  if the Lessor 
named on page 1 has transferred its rights to TFNZ . 
 Other Information  means the other informati on you agree to set out 
on pages 3 a nd 4 of this agreement.  
 PPSA  means the Personal Property Securities Act 1999.  
 PPSR means the Personal Property Securities  Register . 
 Residual Value  is the residual value referred to in the Disclosure 
Statement which has been worked out on the basis that the Vehicle 
will not travel more than the Agreed Kilometre Allowance during the 
term of this agreement or such other value as agreed under clause 
16. 
 Sale Price  is the best wholesale price (after deduction of our c osts 
and expenses on the sale) we can obtain when the lease ends, 
whether at the End Date or where you wish to end your lease early. 
However, where we are entitled to repossess and sell the Vehicle 
under this agreement the “Sale Price” will be the best price 
reasonably obtainable at the time of sale after deduction of our costs 
and expenses on the sale.  
 Security Interest  means any mortgage, charge, assignment, lien, 
pledge or any other p ower or right given as (or in effect as) security 
for the payment of money or performance of obligations and includes 
a security interest as defined under the PPSA.  
 Specific Information  means the specific information set out on 
pages 1 , 2 and the first pa rt of page 3 of this agreement.  
 unpaid balance  means the amount owing under this agreement  at a 
particular time, being the difference between all amounts credited 
and all amounts debited to you under this agreement at that time.  
 us, our  and we mean s the Lessor named in the Specific Information 
and will also include TFNZ or anyone else we might assign the 
agreement to, and any of our successors . 
 Vehicle  means the motor vehicle listed in the Specific Information 
and includes accessions, accessories and any replacement parts 
fitted to the Vehicle from time to time.  
 
A67_ 0523  Page 7 of 7   
LESSEE’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT & SIGNATURE  
In signing this agreement each Lessee (“I”) acknowledges that:  
• I have read and understood what is wri tten in this agreement . 
• A copy of this agreement was disclosed to me before  I signed it.  
• I have read and understood the Consent to Obtaining and Disclosure  of Information  on page  4. 
• The way in which my right to undisturbed possession of the Motor Vehicle may be affected if I default, as is set out in claus e 18 of the General 
Terms, was orally explained to me and I understand the general nature and effect of this on my rights.   
Signed by me (the Lessee).  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..  Signature  
 
each in the presence of:  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................   Name of Witness  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............   Signature of Witness  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........   Occupation of Witness  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ................   Address of Witness   
LESSOR’S SIGNATURE  
Signed by  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........   
for and on behalf of the Lessor.  
 
SIGNING DATE  (Lessee  to complete)  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................   
 
 
 
ASSIGNMENT  
In consideration of certain moneys paid to us by Toyota Finance New Zealand Limited ('TFNZ') at Auckland and under a trade ag reement/s between 
us and TFNZ, we, the Lessor named on the front page, assign, transfer and set over to TFNZ absolutely as separate absolute assignments:  
(a) all our right, title, claim, remedies and interest in and under the agreement; and  
(b) all our right, title, remedies and security interest in and to the Motor Vehicle; and 
(c) the benefit of all Guarantees, indemnities, undertakings and all other rights held by us under or in relation to this agreeme nt. 
We will execute and deliver to TFNZ on the date below a notice to the Lessee directing the Lessee to pay all moneys owing in respect of this 
agreement to TFNZ.  
DATED this  _________   day of    ________________________________ ________   
SIGNED by   
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........   Name  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  Signature  
in the presence of:   
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................   Name of Witness  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............   Occupation of Witness  
 ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............   Signature of Witness  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................   Address of Witness